The Unity MVC framework.
I created the Unity UMBC framework several years ago based on my learnings at the time and my architectural
goals.
The benefits of using this particular framework I find are that it is proven and based on a lot of the
principles and patterns that we've seen before in the course.
While the version exists only for unity, in theory, the patterns there are language agnostic, so
you could bring it to different platforms if you chose.
It brings a more testable environment to unity because each area of your code is separated and decoupled.
And like many of the established architectures, we've taken a look at unity.
And this allows for faster development and much more efficient maintenance on your projects.
At the time of creation, I had a mono behavior centric flow to how I was developing in unity.
So I built this system to work in the same way.
So one of the key features here is that it heavily uses mono behaviors.
Each of the four concerns extends mono behavior.
This means that you can hang each of these concerns on a game object, which is great using all the
familiar workflows we have in unity for game objects and components, including serializing fields on
any of the concerns.
For example, in the screenshot here you can see one of the models.
The model is a mono behavior, so it can have serialized fields and sit nicely in your unity inspector
view.
So what's the high level structure of you and VCs?
Well, we have the familiar m v from the patterns we've looked at before, where each of those four
concerns extends mono behavior.
Then inside my game code, I would create an app concept, which is also amount of behavior.
That's the one thing in my scene under which all of this sits again, some benefits of the mono behavior
approach as it feels very native to unity.
Things are sitting in the scene on game objects and can be separated, as I like.
Now in this chapter, we're just doing an overview of this.
We're eventually going to move on to a different framework.
Here's a snippet from how the UMBC system works.
There are some takeaways from this older system that I still really like.
First, in a lot of the concerns, like the base controller we see here, I use generics.
Generics are a fantastic way in C-sharp to create some reusable template classes.
Secondly, the workflow I have here allows for strong typing, which is great in the specific instances
of how my game flows.
I'm able to get the auto completion, which shows me the properties and methods that make sense for
the context and the framework introduces the concepts we've learned from the design patterns.
We have both the command manager for high level FA Communication in a more decoupled fashion and unity
events for local level, lower level communication.
The key difference here, as we discussed when we talked about these patterns before, is that the command
manager concept doesn't need for the sender and receiver to have references to each other, whereas
the Unity event concept requires that the observer have a reference to the sender.
This gives the framework two tiers of how it can communicate between the major concerns.
So at the time that I created this particular framework, it embraced the principles in how I approached
Unity projects.
As I mentioned, it was a very mono behavior centric approach.
The project is still alive and can be utilized.
For the sake of this course, I'm going to recommend we choose a different framework that I'll talk
about next.
But I'm mentioning this project as a valid example in my architectural portfolio in a place from which
I learned a lot overall in this section, we talked about architectures.
We saw the pros and cons of using any given established architecture.
We talked about some of the differences in key established architectures we can choose from.
We saw the drawbacks of using the no architecture approach.
While that feels very natural, especially as a beginner, it ultimately doesn't pay dividends.
And we saw a list of some of the unity centric frameworks we can choose for doing in game architecture,
including the you and VC's project that I created several years ago.
Next, let's discuss a different framework, the Mini and VC's framework, which I created more recently.
This is the culmination of all the lessons we have here throughout the course the design principles,
the design patterns, learnings from other architectures, including my own.
We'll look at an overview of the system, the pros and cons of using it and how to get started.
This section on architectures was especially thorough and had a lot of information.
Feel free to rewatch some sections to get those concepts a little bit more deeply ingrained and we'll
move on together to the next section.
Thank you.